[Music]
hey I bet you're so used to a smartphone
in your hand that you've never even
asked yourself a question why in the
world is it rectangular why not square
or round for example or why for that
matter you can't use it when in gloves
yeah that bugs me well let's find out
shall we
ever tried using your phone on a sunny
day yeah even turning the screen
brightness up to the max isn't gonna
work why can't they do something about
it LCD screens in fact sacrifice
visibility for better color reproduction
there are screens that show a clearer
picture even in direct sunlight but the
color quality in those is much worse
they are mostly used in GPS navigators
and watches because you need to see the
objects on them well phone manufacturers
keep in mind that you could watch movies
and play games on their products try
doing that under a glaring Sun though
it's not recommended to use your smart
phone while it's charging but for some
reason is the opposite for laptops that
reason is heat generation smart phones
are small so all the heat they
accumulate goes to the battery damaging
it over time while charging your phone
heats up so using it might shorten its
life in laptops the battery is well
isolated from the rest of the parts and
the heat goes around it and keeping the
charge of the battery up prolongs its
service time so feel free to plug it in
and work all you like isn't it a bit
unfair that electric cars can be fully
charged within an hour but a much
smaller smartphone battery needs at
least the same time or even more
electric cars have large batteries with
separate cooling systems that don't
allow them to overheat while charging
smart phones will need equally good
cooling not to melt down if charged too
fast and that adds a lot of extra weight
and on the topic of charging if you
charge your smartphone in the cold you
may notice it goes up slower than usual
this happens because charging involves
chemical reactions they need a certain
range of temperatures for optimal work
so if it's too cold or too hot your
phone will charge more slowly its
overall performance will be reduced - so
better keep it in neutral condition
you probably know that blue light from
screens of smartphones and computers can
mess with your sleep in modern gadgets
though there's an option called
eye saver mode or eye comfort it cuts
off part of the blue light making the
screen yellowish but letting your eyes
and brain rest it's especially useful if
you work with documents since you don't
need a full color palette it's best to
turn it off only to watch videos or play
games to enjoy the juicy picture and
keep it turned on the rest of the time
the expression orange is the new black
or pink or yellow or whatever suits
smart phones and other gadgets like
nothing else even when there are color
options black is almost always one of
them
the reason boils down to black being a
universal color that fits any
surroundings you might sit in an orange
tone room dressed in green and blue put
your black smartphone or black TV will
still look okay same goes for white and
gray all these three colors go well with
any other now look at an average
smartphone and an equally average tablet
PC go ahead I'll wait
done okay the latter has a bigger size
and better computing power but it's
still cheaper than the smart phone we
have here that's because the phone has a
radio chip and the tablet does not radio
chip is probably the most complex part
of a smartphone it has to be able to
work with dozens of different
frequencies across the globe and have a
huge range for you to easily talk to
anyone in the world tablets on the other
hand don't need a radio chip they have a
Wi-Fi one that works with just two
standard global frequency ranges and
covers a few hundred feet hence the
difference in cost in winter it's
annoying that you have to take off your
gloves first and only then answer if
someone's calling you or you can use
your nose instead the screen reacts to
conductive materials and only if they're
a little squishy they can activate
several sensors at once this way
gloves don't conduct electricity so you
either need to use your bare fingers or
buy yourself a pair of gloves with
special fingertips they're tipped with
some rubber and conductive powder to
imitate fingers when something's wrong
with your device and you contact tech
support the first thing they'd ask is
did you try turning it off and back on
seems weird but it actually works
whatever process is running on your
gadget it leaves a trace even when you
close it the more processes you run and
then closed the more such traces are
left in the memory of your device and at
some point it might stop working
properly rebooting your device helps
clear all the unneeded residue and
optimize its work better yet reboot once
a week to avoid this trouble altogether
now take a good look at your smart phone
it might never have occurred to you but
it's rectangle shape is no accident and
it's actually what you want it to be
rectangle is the most convenient shape
for a screen it has an orientation so
you can flip your phone all you want and
it will adapt imagine that say a round
shaped display you'd have to always turn
it in your hands until the top is where
it belongs
believe next it fits into your pocket
nice and cozy the pocket is deeper than
it is wide
so a phone longer than it is broad will
sit there perfectly a square or circular
phone will be more of an inconvenience
then again a rectangle is much easier to
handle it fits in your palm and it feels
better than a circle or a square and
finally we're used to having rectangular
things all around us pictures sheets of
paper books photographs having round
shaped screens would have just been
weird still they have been attempts to
create circular and square smart phones
but as you can guess they didn't get on
ever try taking a photo of that striking
moon on your smartphone if you have you
know what a disappointment is yes that
little blurry whitish spot is the same
beautiful celestial body you see in the
night sky your smartphone camera is just
not light sensitive enough to capture it
in all its full glory manufacturers
trade extra hike
quality of photographs for easiness of
use given that the average smartphone
user doesn't even need professional
pictures so if you want a breathtaking
shot of the starry skies better get
yourself a DSLR camera with a special
lens most smartphones now have both rear
and front facing cameras but they differ
in picture quality alive this is because
a higher quality camera requires more
space inside the phone and manufacturers
choose to install a smaller and cheaper
camera in the front of their devices to
save that space instead they up the
performance of the smartphone itself
which is a good trade-off if you asked
me after all the front camera is mostly
used for selfies and it's not like
you're gonna print them on a poster when
you turn your phone or computer off and
then on again the booting process can't
seem awfully slow why can't it just
start up immediately right well when you
switch off your device it dumps
everything from its short-term memory
think of it as hitting your gadget hard
on the head it forgets everything you
did with it and has to remember it again
upon boot up so it takes time for the
device to wake up and start functioning
at its normal speed
many modern smartphones have had their
headphone jacks removed there are two
reasons for this first without a
three-and-a-half millimeter jack at the
top or bottom of the phone you can make
the device itself much thinner because
now it's by far the thickest part of any
phone in second water resistance is
trending today and a headphone jack is a
gaping hole in the body of a smartphone
naturally water can get in there easily
so getting rid of the jack allows for
making the phone waterproof taking
photos in the dark with a flash you must
have noticed your smart phone flashes
several times before making the actual
shot remember those horrid red eyes and
old photographs made on film or digital
cameras that happened exactly because
the camera flashed only once in the dark
the pupils of your eyes become larger
try to catch more light to see better
and when they reflect the cameras flash
the red-eye effect appears with
smartphones the first short flash
makes the pupils contract from the
bright light and only then the device
takes a shot and you don't resemble a
horror movie creature anymore at least
your eyes don't hey I'm kidding hey you
know what if you learn something new
today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life